{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Early Modern English\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Early-Modern-English, the language spoken at the time of Shakespeare, is known to be more morphologically rich than contemporary Modern-English. There are also some words that are seldomly used today. We'll discuss a few of those, too. For brevity's sake, we will refer to a word in the Early-Modern-English vocabulary as an "Elizabethan Word". Likewise, we will refer to a word in the contemporary Modern-English vocabulary as a "modern Word".\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 First, let's take a look at second-person pronouns and their precise meanings. Afterwards, we'll see how these outdated pronouns align with today's first-person pronouns:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Second-Person pronouns\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Case\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Singular 2nd-Person\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plural 2nd-Person\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Modern Equivalent\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Subjective}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thou\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ye\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 you\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Objective}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thee\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 you\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 you\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Genitive}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 your\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 your\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Possessive}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 yours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 yours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reflexive}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thyself\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 yourselves\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 yourself (singular)\line yourselves (plural)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Notice the similarity with First-Person pronouns:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel4 \b \fs20 Singular Pronouns:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Case\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Singular 1st-Person\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Singular 2nd-Person\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Subjective}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 I\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thou\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Objective}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 me\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thee\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Genitive}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 my\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Possessive}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 mine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thine\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reflexive}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 myself\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 thyself\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel4 \b \fs20 Plural Pronouns:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Case\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plural 1st-Person\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plural 2nd-Person\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Subjective}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 we\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ye\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Objective}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 us\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 you\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Genitive}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 our\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 your\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Possessive}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ours\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 yours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reflexive}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ourselves\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 yourselves\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Elizabethan Morphology: \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel4 \b \fs20 Singular Verb Conjugations:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Person / Number\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Usages with Copula\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Modern Equivalent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Elizabethan Conjugation of regular verbs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Modern Conjugation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b 1st-Person / Singular}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 I am\line I was\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 I am\line I was\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 I prepare\line I prepared\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 I prepare\line I prepared\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b 2nd-Person / Singular}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i thou art\line thou wast}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 you are\line you were\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i thou preparest\line thou preparedst}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 you prepare\line you prepared\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b 3rd-Person / Singular}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 he is\line she is\line Mary is\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 he is\line she is\line Mary is\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i he prepareth\line she prepareth\line Mary prepareth}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 he prepares\line she prepares\line Mary prepares\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In general:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab verb conjugations with 1st-person singular are the same as modern English\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab verb conjugations with 2nd-person singular, end in {\i {\b st}} or {\i {\b est}}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab verb conjugations with 3rd-person singular, end in {\i {\b th}} or {\i {\b eth}} (the modern singular verb equivalents end in {\i {\b s}} or {\i {\b es}})\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Let's examine morphology by example:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel4 \b \fs20 Plural Verb Conjugations:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Person / Number\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Usages with Copula\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Modern Equivalent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Elizabethan Conjugation of regular verbs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Modern Conjugation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b 1st-Person / Plural}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 we are\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 we are\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 we prepare\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 we prepare\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b 2nd-Person / Plural}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i ye} are\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 you are\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i ye} prepare\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 you prepare\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b 3rd-Person / Plural}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 they are\line people are\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 they are\line people are\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 they prepare\line people prepare\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 they prepare\line people prepare\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In general: While the pronoun-form for second-person plural differs from the modern, all verb conjugation for plural verbs is consistent between Elizabethan English and contemporary English.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It should be noted that the distinction between singular and plural forms of the second person pronouns affords greater precision in the language. There are times, when studying the scripture, that this clarity of meaning is valuable. For this reason, when text is modernized into AVX by the AV-Bible application, a superscript is utilized to identify singular and plural. The superscript is provided on both second-person pronouns and the also on the conjugated verbs. That way, even when the text is modernized, the precision of the original text is preserved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 By the way, both ancient Hebrew and ancient Greek also distinguished between singular and plural second-person pronoun forms. It might be obvious to the reader, but contemporary English translations are unable to non-verbosely represent this level of precision.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Let's examine a couple Elizabethan words that say a lot in a single word:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Word (adverb)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Modern equivalent\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Precise Meaning\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b hither}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 here\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 from there to here\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b thither}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 there\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 from here to there\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The AVX button in AV-Bible is able to modernize the text by utilizing a singular bi-text lexicon. Incidentally, the KJV bible is sometimes called "The Authorized Version", because it was authorized by the king. The two most significant editions of the KJV are named by their publication dates, notably: the AV-1611 and the AV-1769. Aside from an original printing-press typo or two, the two editions contain the vary same words.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 However, in the early sixteen hundreds, word spellings had not yet been standardized. In fact, it was emblematic of education to vary spellings. These varied spellings were many in the original AV-1611. In the mid seventeen hundreds, spellings were becoming standardized. Moreover, English orthography was updated during that same period [somewhat analogous to fonts, but some letters morphed; that orthographical is what we use in contemporary English today]. Consequently, the publication of the AV-1769 contained updated/standardized spellings and updated orthography. \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Yet, word for word, the AV-1611 and the AV-1769 are the same book. Yet, most modern English speakers would struggle a bit to decipher the AV-1611. Much less so with the AV-1769, that is the basis for every modern KJV publication today.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The idea for AVX was indeed inspired by the 1769 edition. In fact I view the modernized text to be very analogous to the yet a third major edition of the AV. Since AVX is not a true translation, but a mechanical mapping of a seventeenth century text into a modern lexicon, the mapping is not always clean. It's precise, yet sometimes the result is harder to understand than the original Elizabethan text of the KJV. For this reason, AVX is considered to be a study-help for the KJV, not to be equated as new edition/version of the bible. Where AVX-modernization works, it works wonderfully, where it fails, it's best to consult the passage directly in the KJV. AV-Bible 2024 provides side-by-side KJX and AVX verse-renderings (with or without difference highlighting).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 AVX stands for AV eXtensions. It is not a new translation. It is not a new edition of the KJV. It is merely a study help for understanding the very words of the very bible that fueled the greatest missionary period that the world has ever seen.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Psalm 12:6-7}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 The words of the Lord are pure words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation for ever.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The one remaining hurdle to understanding the KJV is an aspect of contemporary modern English that we are all used to. With very few exceptions, the subject ALWAYS precedes the verb. Not so in Elizabethan English. While the subject usually precedes the verb, it does not always. At times, this remains intuitive to the reader. Notwithstanding, longer sentences where the verb precedes the subject can be quite confusing. Unfortunately, it seems that modernizing the text with AVX makes some of these passages more difficult to understand the the original language found in the KJV. Again, AVX is a study tool for illuminating meaning for contemporary English readers. It turns out that learning to understand Early Modern English itself is the best way to understand the words of the KJV. While the author of AV-Bible 2024 believes that AVX is a help for modern readers, he himself uses a KJV in his personal reading and devotions (not an AVX modernization). Still he often quotes with AVX rendering, when speaking with those unfamiliar with Elizabethan English.\par}
}
