{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Background\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Near the end of the last century, Google pioneered the modern search interface by employing an elegantly simple "search box". This was an evolution away from the complex interfaces that preceded it. Still, it becomes problematic when we want to search for multiple terms, unless we expect to merely "match every term".\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Search-for-Truth (S4T) query language provides a concise yet comprehensive syntax for searching and studying the scriptures, configuring, and controlling the AV-Bible application. It gets its name from the Bereans found in Acts 17:11-12, along with those Christians mentioned in 2 Thessalonians 12-13, and Paul's instruction to Timothy in II Timothy 2:15. God instructs us to "study" his word, and S4T can streamline the mechanics of that activity (only the soul and spirit can actively study the scriptures). In any event, S4T grammar supports Boolean operations such as AND, OR, and NOT. Great care has been taken to support the construction of complex queries. Greater care has been taken to maintain a clear and concise syntax.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 S4T is consistent with itself. S4T always favors simplicity over versatility. Avoiding complexity of syntax, makes the grammar easier to explain. S4T also avoids nuance (we chose not to imitate "i" before "e" except after "c"). Without complexity and nuance, S4T is easy to learn, easy to type, and easy to remember. In fact, search expressions often look no different than they would appear today in a Google or Bing search. Incidentally, S4T is a dialect of Quelle and conforms to the Quelle Specification.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Grammar Overview\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The AV-Bible Addin for Microsoft Word implements a subset of the AV-Word Grammar, known as S4T. This document identified that subset of S4T grammar, suppoorted in the Addin.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Statement Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Syntax\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Selection Statement\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Combines search criteria and scoping filters for tailored verse selection.\line Configuration settings can also be combined and incorporated into the selection criteria.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Imperative Statement\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 single action for configuration and/or application control (cannot be combined with other actions)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Selection Criteria (includes search operations)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Selection Statement contains Selection Criteria, followed by an {\ul optional} Directive:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The selection criteria controls how verses are selected. It is made up of one to three blocks. The ordering of blocks is partly prescribed. When present, the expression block must be in the initial position. The scoping block and/or the settings-block follow the expression block (when expressed). So long as scoping clauses are grouped into a single block {\ul and} the settings clauses are grouped into a single block, those two blocks can be in either order (so long as they are listed after the expression block when it is expressed). \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Search Expression Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Settings Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Scoping Block\sa180\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block Position\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hashtag Utilization Level\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i {\b initial}}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Search Expression Block}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 full utilization\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i after expression block when provided}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Settings Block}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 partial utilization\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i after expression block when provided}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Scoping Block}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 partial utilization\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Section 1 - Selection/Search \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 QuickStart\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Consider this proximity search (find Moses and Aaron within a single span of seven words):\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Moses Aaron +span = 7}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 S4T syntax can specify the lexicon to search, by also supplying temporary settings:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Moses Aaron +span = 7 +lexicon.search = KJV}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The statement above has assigns two settings in the context of search. The search criteria, with the settings means that both Aaron and Moses are required to appear within 7 words of each other, but both names must be present to constitute a match.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Next, consider a search to find Moses {\ul or} Aaron:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Moses|Aaron}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The order in which the search terms are provided is insignificant. Additionally, the type-case is insignificant. And either name found would constitute a match.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Of course, there are times when word order is significant. Accordingly, searching for explicit strings can be accomplished using double-quotes as follows:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i "Moses said ... Aaron"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These constructs can even be combined. For example:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i "Moses said ... Aaron|Miriam"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In all cases, \u8220"...\u8221" means \u8220"followed by\u8221", but the ellipsis allows other words to appear between "said" and "Aaron". Likewise, it allows words to appear between "said" and "Miriam". \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 S4T is designed to be intuitive. It provides the ability to invoke Boolean logic for term-matching and/or linguistic feature-matching. As we saw above, the pipe symbol ( | ) can be used to invoke an {\i OR} condition.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Selection Criteria\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As we saw in the overview, there three blocks that compose Selection Criteria:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Expression Block Components\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\i find expression}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\i complete hashtag utilization}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Settings Block Components\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\i assign setting}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\i partial hashtag utilization}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Scoping Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\i filter directives}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\i partial hashtag utilization}\sa180\sa180\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Action\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Position\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Action Syntax\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Repeatable Action\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i find}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expression Block\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 initial\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 search expression or {\i {\b #id}}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b no}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i utilize}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Expression Block\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 initial\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i {\b #tag}}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b no}: only one hashtag is permitted per block\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i assign}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Settings Block\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 initial\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i {\b +setting = value}}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 yes (e.g. {\i {\b +format=md +lexicon=kjv +span=verse}} )\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i utilize}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Settings Block\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 initial\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i {\b + #tag}}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b no}: only one macro is permitted per block\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i filter}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scoping Block\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 post\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i {\b < scope}}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 yes (e.g. {\i {\b < Genesis 3 < Revelation 1-3}})\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i utilize}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Scoping Block\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 post\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b <} {\i {\b #tag}}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b no}: only one macro is permitted per block\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Table 1-1} - Summary of actions expressible in the Selection Criteria segment of a Selection/Search imperative statement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Two mutually exclusive optional directives can be issued following the selection criteria. \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 1.1 - Search Expression Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The ampersand symbol can similarly be used to represent {\i AND} conditions upon terms. As an example. the English language contains words that can sometimes as a noun , and other times as some other part-of-speech. To determine if the bible text contains the word "part" where it is used as a verb, we can issue this command:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 "part&/verb/"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The SDK, provided by Digital-AV, has marked each word of the bible text for part-of-speech. With the rich syntax of S4T, this type of search is easy and intuitive.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Of course, part-of-speech expressions can also be used independently of an AND condition, as follows:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 "/noun/ ... home" + span = 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 That search would find phrases where a noun appeared within a span of six words, preceding the word "home"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Valid statement syntax, but no results:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 this&that\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 /noun/ & /verb/\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Both of the statements above are valid, but will not match any results. Search statements attempt to match actual words in the actual bible text. A word cannot be "this" {\b and} "that". Likewise, an individual word in a sentence does not operate as a /noun/ {\b and} a /verb/ at the same time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Negating search-terms Example:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Consider a query for all passages that contain a word beginning with "Lord", followed by any word that is neither a verb nor an adverb:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 "Lord* -/v/ & -/adv/" + span = 15\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 1.2 - Settings Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When the same setting appears more than once, only the last setting in the list is preserved. Example:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +format=md +format=text\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The assignment would be to text. We call this: "last assignment wins".\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Finally, there is a bit more to say about the similarity setting, because it actually has three components. If we issue this command, it affects similarity in two distinct ways:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +similarity = 85%\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 That command is a concise way of setting two values. It is equivalent to this command\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +similarity.word=85% +similarity.lemma=85%\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 That is to say, similarity is operative for the lexical word and also the lemma of the word. While not discussed previously, these two similarities thresholds need not be identical. These commands are also valid:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +similarity.word=85% +similarity.lemma=95%\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +similarity.word=85%\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +similarity.word=off +similarity.lemma=100%\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +similarity.lemma=off\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 the lexicon controls operate in a similar manner:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +lexicon=KJV \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 That command is a concise way of setting two values. It is equivalent to this command\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +lexicon.search=KJV +lexicon.render=KJV\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 That is to say, lexicon is operative for searching and rendering. Like the similarity setting, the lexicon setting can also diverge between search and render parts. A common lexicon setting might be:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +lexicon.search=both +lexicon.render=KJV\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 That setting would search both the KJV (aka AV) lexicon and a modernized lexicon (aka AVX), but verse rendering would only be in KJV.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 1.3 - Scoping Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sometimes we want to limit the scope of our search. Say that I want to find mentions of the serpent in Genesis. I can search only Genesis by executing this search:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 serpent < Genesis\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If I also want to search in Genesis and Revelation, this works:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 serpent < Genesis < Revelation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Filters also allow Chapter and Verse specifications. To search for the serpent in Genesis Chapter 3, we can do this:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 serpent < Genesis 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Abbreviations are also supported:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 vanity < sos < 1co\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Section 2 - Settings \par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Setting Name\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shorthand\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Meaning\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Values\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Default Value\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 span\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 proximity distance limit (can be "verse" or number of words)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 verse or\line  1 to 999\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 verse\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexicon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Streamlined syntax for setting lexicon.search\line  and lexicon.render to the same value\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 av or avx or dual\line (kjv or modern or both)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 n/a\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexicon.search\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 search\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 the lexicon to be used for searching\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 av or avx or dual\line (kjv or modern or both)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 dual / both\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexicon.render\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 render\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 the lexicon to be used for display/rendering\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 av/avx (kjv/modern)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 av / kjv\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 format\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 format of results on output\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 see Table 7\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 text / utf8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 similarity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Streamlined syntax for setting similarity.word\line and similarity.lemma to the same value\line Phonetics matching threshold is between 33% and 100%. 100% represents an exact sounds-alike match. Any percentage less than 100, represents a fuzzy sounds-similar match \line Similarity matching can be completely disabled by setting this value to off\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 33% to 100% {\b or} {\i off}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 off\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 similarity.word\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 word\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 fuzzy phonetics matching as described above, but this prefix only affects similarity matching on the word.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 33% to 100% {\b or} {\i off}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 off\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 similarity.lemma\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lemma\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 fuzzy phonetics matching as described above, but this prefix only affects similarity matching on the lemma.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 33% to 100% {\b or} {\i off}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 off\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 revision\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Not really a true setting: it works with the {\i @get} command to retrieve the revision number of the S4T grammar supported by AV-Engine. This value is read-only.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4.x.yz\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 n/a\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ALL\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ALL is an aggregate setting: it works with the {\i @clear} command to reset all variables above to their default values. It is used with {\i @get} to fetch all settings.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 n/a\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 n/a\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b TABLE 2-1} - Summary of AV-Bible Settings\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Section 3 - Grammar\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 3.1 - Glossary of S4T Terminology\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Actions:} Actions are complete verb-clauses issued in the imperative [you-understood]. Many actions have one or more parameters. But just like English, a verb phrase can be a single word with no explicit subject and no explicit object. Consider this English sentence:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Go!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The subject of this sentence is "you understood". Similarly, all verbs are issued without an explicit subject. The object of the verb in the one word sentence above is also unstated. S4T operates in an analogous manner. Consider this English sentence:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Go Home!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Like the earlier example, the subject is "you understood". The object this time is defined, and insists that "you" should go home. Some verbs always have objects, others sometimes do, and still others never do. S4T follows this same pattern and some S4T verbs require direct-objects; and some do not. In the various tables throughout this document, required and optional parameters are identified, These parameters represent the object of the verb within each respective table.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Selection Criteria}: Selection what text to render is determined with a search expression, scoping filters, or both.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Search Expression}: The Search Expression has fragments, and fragments have features. For an expression to match, all fragments must match (Logical AND). For a fragment to match, any feature must match (Logical OR). AND is represented by &. OR is represented by |.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Unquoted SEARCH clauses:} an unquoted search clause contains one or more search fragments. If there is more than one fragment in the clause, then each fragment is logically AND\u8217'ed together.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Quoted SEARCH clauses:} a quoted clause contains a single string of terms to search. An explicit match on the string is required. However, an ellipsis ( \u8230 ? ) can be used to indicate that other terms may silently intervene within the quoted string.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab It is called {\i quoted,} as the entire clause is sandwiched on both sides by double-quotes ( " )\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The absence of double-quotes means that the statement is unquoted\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Booleans and Negations:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b and:} In Boolean logic, {\b and} means that all terms must be found. With S4T, {\b and} is represented by terms that appear within an unquoted clause. {\b And} logic is also available on each search-term by using the {\b &} operator.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b or:} In Boolean logic, {\b or} means that any term constitutes a match. With S4T, {\b and} is represented per each search-term by using the {\b |} operator.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b not:} In Boolean logic, means that the feature must not be found. With S4T, {\i not} is represented by the hyphen ( {\b -} ) and applies to individual features within a fragment of a search expression. It is best used in conjunction with other features, because any non-match will be included in results. \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 hyphen ( {\b -} ) means that any non-match satisfies the search condition. Used by itself, it would likely return every verse. Therefore, it should be used judiciously.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 3.2 - Specialized Search tokens in AV-Bible\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The lexical search domain of S4T includes all words in the original KJV text. It can also optionally search using a modernized lexicon of the KJV (e.g. hast and has; this is controllable with the search.lexicon setting). The table below lists linguistic extensions available in S4T.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Search Term\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Operator Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Meaning\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maps To\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mask\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 un*\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 starts with: un\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that start with "un"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 *ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ends with: ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that end with "ness"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 un*ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 starts with: un\line ends with: ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that start with "un", and end with "ness"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 *profit*\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 contains: profit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that contain both "profit"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 *pro*fit*\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 contains: pro and fit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that contain both "pro" and "fit" (in any order)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 un*profit*ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 starts with: un\line contains: profit\line ends with: ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that start with "un", contain "profit", and end with "ness"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 un*pro*fit*ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 starts with: un\line contains: pro and fit\line ends with: ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that start with "un", contain "pro" and "fit", and end with "ness"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ~\u643 ?\u603 ?p\u605 ?d*\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 phonetic wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tilde marks the wildcard as phonetic (wildcards never perform sounds-alike searching)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 All lexical entries that start with the sound \u643 ?\u603 ?p\u605 ?d (this would include shepherd, shepherds, shepherding...)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TBD\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ~\u643 ?\u603 ?p\u605 ?dz\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 sounds-alike search using IPA (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tilde marks the search term as phonetic (and if similarity is set between 33 and 99, search handles approximate matching)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 This would match the lexical entry "shepherds" (and possibly similar terms, depending on similarity threshold)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TDB\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (is)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lemma\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 search on all words that share the same lemma as is: be, is, are, art, ...\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 be is are art ...\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /noun/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a noun\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x010\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /n/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /noun/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x010\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /verb/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a verb\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x100\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /v/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /verb/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x100\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /pronoun/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a pronoun\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x020\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /pn/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /pronoun/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x020\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /adjective/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is an adjective\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xF00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /adj/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /adjective/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xF00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /adverb/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is an adverb\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xA00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /adv/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /adverb/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xA00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /determiner/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a determiner\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xD00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /det/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /determiner/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xD00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /preposition/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a preposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x400\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /prep/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a preposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x400\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /1p/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is inflected for 1st person (pronouns and verbs)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x100\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /2p/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is inflected for 2nd person (pronouns and verbs)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x200\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /3p/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is inflected for 3rd person (pronouns, verbs, and nouns)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x300\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /singular/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is known to be singular (pronouns, verbs, and nouns)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x400\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xC000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /plural/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is known to be plural (pronouns, verbs, and nouns)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x800\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xC000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /WH/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is a WH word (e.g., Who, What, When, Where, How)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xC00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xC000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /BoB/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the first word of the book (e.g. first word in Genesis)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0xE0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /BoC/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the first word of the chapter\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x60\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /BoV/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the first word of the verse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x20\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /EoB/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the last word of the book (e.g. last word in revelation)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0xF0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /EoC/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the last word of the chapter\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x70\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /EoV/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the last word of the verse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x30\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Hsm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hard Segment Marker (end) ... one of . \\? !\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x40\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Csm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Core Segment Marker (end) ... :\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x20\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Rsm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Real Segment Marker (end) ... one of . \\? ! :\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x60\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Ssm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soft Segment Marker (end) ... one of \\, \\; ( ) --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /sm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Any Segment Marker (end) ... any of the above\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::!=0x00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /_/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately marked for clausal punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::!=0x00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /!/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by an exclamation mark\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x80\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /?/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a question mark\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0xC0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /./\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a period (declarative)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0xE0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /-/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a hyphen/dash\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0xA0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /;/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a semicolon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x20\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /,/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a comma\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x40\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /:/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a colon (information follows)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x60\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /'/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is possessive, marked with an apostrophe\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /)/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 parenthetical text\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a close parenthesis\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x0C\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0C\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /(/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 parenthetical text\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word contained within parenthesis\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x04\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x04\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Italics/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 text decoration\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 italicized words marked with this bit in punctuation byte\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x02\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x02\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Jesus/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 text decoration\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 words of Jesus marked with this bit in punctuation byte\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x01\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x01\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /delta/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexicon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 [archaic] word can be transformed into modern American English\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 [type]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 named entity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Entities are recognized by MorphAdorner. They are also matched against Hitchcock's database. This functionality is experimental and considered BETA.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 type=person man\line woman tribe city\line river mountain\line animal gemstone\line measurement any\line any_Hitchcock\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 [FFFF]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PN+POS(12)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 hexadecimal representation of bits for a PN+POS(12) value.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 See Digital-AV SDK\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 uint16\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 [FFFFFFFF]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS(32)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 hexadecimal representation of bits for a POS(32) value.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 See Digital-AV SDK\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 uint32\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 [string]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 nupos-string\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 NUPOS string representing part-of-speech. This is the preferred syntax over POS(32), even though they are equivalent. NUPOS part-of-speech values have higher fidelity than the 16-bit PN+POS(12) representations.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 See Part-of-Speech-for-Digital-AV.docx\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 uint32\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 99999:H\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strongs Number\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 decimal Strongs number for the Hebrew word in the Old Testament\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One of Strongs[4]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x7FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 99999:G\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strongs Number\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 decimal Strongs number for the Greek word in the New Testament\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One of Strongs[4]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x7FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 3.4 - S4T conformance to the Quelle specification\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Quelle specifies two possible implementation levels:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Level 1 [basic search support]\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Level 2 [search support includes also searching on part-of-speech tags]\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Av-Bible S4T is a Level 2 Quelle implementation with augmented search capabilities. S4T extends Quelle to include AVX-Framework-specific constructs. However, the Addin does not support the entire S4T grammar. Unsupported grammar is simply not documented here. For full Quelle support, the AV-Bible Windows executable should be utilized.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab S4T represents the biblical text with two substantially similar, but distinct, lexicons. The search.lexicon setting can be specified by the user to control which lexicon is to be searched. Likewise, the render.lexicon setting is used to control which lexicon is used for displaying the biblical text. As an example, the KJV text of "thou art" would be modernized to "you are".\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab AV/KJV {\i (a lexicon that faithfully represents the KJV bible; AV purists should select this setting)}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab AVX/Modern {\i (a lexicon that that has been modernized to appear more like contemporary English)}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Dual/Both {\i (use both lexicons)}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 The Dual/Both setting for lexicon.search indicates that searching should consider both lexicons. The The Dual/Both setting for lexicon.render indicates that results should be displayed for both renderings [whether this is side-by-side or in-parallel depends on the format and the application where the display-rendering occurs]. Left unspecified, the lexicon setting applies to lexicon.search and lexicon.render components.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab S4T provides support for fuzzy-match-logic. The similarity setting can be specified by the user to control the similarity threshold for approximate matching. An exact lexical match is expected when similarity is set to {\i off}. \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Phonetics matches are enabled when similarity is set between 33% and 100%. Similarity is calculated based upon the phonetic representation for the word.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 The minimum permitted similarity threshold is 33%. Any similarity threshold between 1% and 32% produces a syntax error.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 A similarity setting of 100% still uses phonetics, but expects an exact phonetic match (e.g. "there" and "their" are a 100% phonetic match).\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 AV-Bible uses the AV-1769 edition of the sacred text. It substantially agrees with the "Bearing Precious Seed" bibles, as published by local church ministries. The text itself has undergone review by Christian missionaries, pastors, and lay people since the mid-1990's. The original incarnation of the digitized AV-1769 text was implemented in the free PC/Windows app known as:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 1995 Edition for Windows 95 & Windows NT 3.5\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 1997 Edition for Windows 95 & Windows NT 4.0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 1999 Edition for Windows 98 & Windows NT 4.0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2000 Edition for Windows Me & Windows 2000\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2007 Edition for Windows XP\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2011 Edition for Windows Vista\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2021 Edition for Windows 10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2024 Edition for Windows 11 (current release; initial release to support S4T)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Decades ago, AV-Bible (aka AV-1995, AV-1997, ... AV-2011), were found on internet bulletin boards and the now defunct bible.advocate.com website. More recent legacy versions are still available at the avbible.net website. Modern editions are distributed on the Microsoft store.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Please see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://Digital-AV.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://Digital-AV.org
}}}
 for additional information about the SDK.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
}
