{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Selection Criteria\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The selection criteria controls how verses are selected. It is made up of one to three blocks. The ordering of blocks is partly prescribed. When present, the expression block must be in the initial position. The scoping block and the settings-block must follow the expression when provided. The scoping block and settings-block can be in either order (so long as they are listed before the scoping block when present).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Search Expression Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Settings Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Scoping Block\sa180\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block Position\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Block Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hashtag Utilization Level\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i {\b initial}}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Search Expression Block}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 full utilization\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i after expression block when provided}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Settings Block}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 partial utilization\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i after expression block when provided}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Scoping Block}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 partial utilization\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Search Expression Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Consider a search to find Moses {\ul or} Aaron:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Moses|Aaron}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The order in which the search terms are provided is insignificant. Additionally, the type-case is insignificant. And either name found would constitute a match.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Of course, there are times when word order is significant. Accordingly, searching for explicit strings can be accomplished using double-quotes as follows:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i "Moses said ... Aaron"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These constructs can even be combined. For example:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i "Moses said ... Aaron|Miriam"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In all cases, \u8220"...\u8221" means \u8220"followed by\u8221", but the ellipsis allows other words to appear between "said" and "Aaron". Likewise, it allows words to appear between "said" and "Miriam".\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Scoping Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sometimes we want to constrain the domain of where we are searching. Say that I want to find mentions of {\i Moses or Aaron} in Genesis. I can search only Genesis by executing this search:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Moses|Aaron} < Genesis\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If I also want to also include Exodus in the search, this works:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Moses|Aaron < Genesis < Exodus\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Scoping allows chapter specification or chapter ranges, as depicted below.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 serpent < Genesis 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 serpent < Genesis 3-7\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Scoping blaocks can be expressed without a search expression, as follows:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 < Genesis 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 That statement would render every verse in Genesis 3, without any highlighting (Highlighting only occurs when combined with a search expression).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The bible instructs us to "rightly divide" the "word of truth" as we study the scriptures [2 Timothy 2:15]. To this end, the AV-Bible application provides some traditional divisions (or groupings). Some of these are overlapping. As there is not universal accord of what the appropriate divisions are, AV-Bible expands the divisions into the books as identified in the table below:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Identifying Scoping Text\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Variants\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Books\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Range\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Old Testament\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 OT / O.T.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Genesis {\i {\b to}} Malachi\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 - 39\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Law\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pentateuch\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Genesis {\i {\b to}} Deuteronomy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 - 5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 History\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Joshua {\i {\b to}} Esther\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6 - 17\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wisdom and Poetry\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wisdom & Poetry\line Wisdom + Poetry\line Wisdom\line Poetry\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Job {\i {\b to}} Song of Solomon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 18-22\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prophets\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Isaiah {\i {\b to}} Malichi\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 23 - 39\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Major Prophets\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Isaiah {\i {\b to}} Daniel\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 23 - 27\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Minor Prophets\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hosiah {\i {\b to}} Malichi\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 28 - 39\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 New Testament\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 NT / N.T.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Matthew {\i {\b to}} Revelation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 40 - 66\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gospels and Acts\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gospels & Acts\line Gospels + Acts\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Matthew {\i {\b to}} Acts\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 40 - 44\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Gospels\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Matthew {\i {\b to}} Luke\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 40 - 43\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Epistles\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Epistle\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Romans {\i {\b to}} Jude\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 45 - 65\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Church Epistles\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Church Epistle\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Romans {\i {\b to}} Colossians\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 45 - 51\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pastoral Epistles\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pastoral Epistle\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Thessalonians {\i {\b to}} Philemon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 52 - 57\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 General Epistles\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 General Epistle\line Jewish Epistles\line Jewish Epistle\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hebrews {\i {\b to}} Jude\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 58 - 65\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 General Epistles and Revelation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 General Epistles & Revelation\line General Epistles + Revelation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hebrews {\i {\b to}} Revelation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 58 - 66\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, if I set the scoping block as below:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Moses < pentateuch\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 That is equated to to a scoped search as follows:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Moses < Gen < Ex < Lev < Num < Deut\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Settings Block\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any setting is permitted in the search block.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following settings affect how search expressions behave:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Setting\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shorthand\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Meaning\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Values\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 span\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 proximity distance limit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 to 999 or verse\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexicon.search\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 search\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 the lexicon to be used for searching\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 av or avx or dual\line (kjv or modern or both)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 similarity.word\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 word\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 fuzzy phonetics matching as described above, but this prefix only affects similarity matching on the word.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 33% to 99% [fuzzy] {\b or} ...\line 0 {\b or} {\i none}\line 100 {\b or} {\i exact}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 similarity.lemma\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lemma\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 fuzzy phonetics matching as described above, but this prefix only affects similarity matching on the lemma.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 33% to 99% [fuzzy] {\b or} ...\line 0 {\b or} {\i none}\line 100 {\b or} {\i exact}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following settings affect how selected verses [i.e. search results] are rendered:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Setting\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Meaning\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Values\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 render\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 the lexicon to be used for display/rendering\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 av/avx (kjv/modern)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 format\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 format of results on output\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 see Table 7\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel4 \b \fs20 Example settings that affect search behavior:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 sayest you art&/verb/ +lexicon.search=kjv +span=7 +similarity.word=85%\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The settings block is between the square braces. It is exactly equivalent to this statement:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 sayest you art&/verb/ +search=kjv +span=7 +word=85%\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +search=kjv -- use the kjv lexicon for searching [not the modern lexicon (art&/verb/ would never be found in the modern lexicon)]\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +word=85% -- exact matches are not necessary, any word need only match with an 85% [sounds-alike] similarity threshold.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +span=7 -- three search terms are expressed in the search. All three must be within a 7-word-span in order to constitute a match.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel4 \b \fs20 Example settings that affect rendering behavior:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 < Genesis 3 +render=modern +format=html > C:\\users\\my-username\\Documents\\Genesis-3.html\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The above statement includes an optional export directive [creating a file]. The following statement does exactly the same thing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 +render=avx +format=html < Gen3 > C:\\users\\my-username\\Documents\\Genesis-3.html\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For more details on what each setting means, perform this command:\line @help settings\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Advanced Capabilities and Search Expression Terminology\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Selection Criteria}: Selection what text to render is determined with a search expression, scoping filters, or both.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Search Expression}: The Search Expression has fragments, and fragments have features. For an expression to match, all fragments must match (Logical AND). For a fragment to match, any feature must match (Logical OR). AND is represented by &. OR is represented by |.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Unquoted SEARCH clauses:} an unquoted search clause contains one or more search fragments. If there is more than one fragment in the clause, then each fragment is logically AND\u8217'ed together.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Quoted SEARCH clauses:} a quoted clause contains a single string of terms to search. An explicit match on the string is required. However, an ellipsis ( \u8230 ? ) can be used to indicate that other terms may silently intervene within the quoted string.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab It is called {\i quoted,} as the entire clause is sandwiched on both sides by double-quotes ( " )\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The absence of double-quotes means that the statement is unquoted\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Booleans and Negations:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b and:} In Boolean logic, {\b and} means that all terms must be found. In S4T query language, {\b and} is represented by terms that appear within an unquoted clause. {\b And} logic is also available on each search-term by using the {\b &} operator.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b or:} In Boolean logic, {\b or} means that any term constitutes a match. In S4T, {\b and} is represented per each search-term by using the {\b |} operator.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b not:} In Boolean logic, means that the feature must not be found. In S4T, {\i not} is represented by the hyphen ( {\b -} ) and applies to individual features within a fragment of a search expression. It is best used in conjunction with other features, because any non-match will be included in results.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 hyphen ( {\b -} ) means that any non-match satisfies the search condition. Used by itself, it would likely return every verse. Therefore, it should be used judiciously.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Specialized Search tokens in AV-Bible\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The lexical search domain of S4T grammar includes all words in the original KJV text. It can also optionally search using a modernized lexicon of the KJV (e.g. hast and has; this is controllable with the search.lexicon setting). The table below lists linguistic extensions available in S4T query language.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Search Term\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Operator Type\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Meaning\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Maps To\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mask\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 un*\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 starts with: un\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that start with "un"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 *ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ends with: ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that end with "ness"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 un*ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 starts with: un\line ends with: ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that start with "un", and end with "ness"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 *profit*\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 contains: profit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that contain both "profit"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 *pro*fit*\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 contains: pro and fit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that contain both "pro" and "fit" (in any order)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 un*profit*ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 starts with: un\line contains: profit\line ends with: ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that start with "un", contain "profit", and end with "ness"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 un*pro*fit*ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 starts with: un\line contains: pro and fit\line ends with: ness\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 all lexicon entries that start with "un", contain "pro" and "fit", and end with "ness"\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ~\u643 ?\u603 ?p\u605 ?d*\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 phonetic wildcard (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tilde marks the wildcard as phonetic (wildcards never perform sounds-alike searching)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 All lexical entries that start with the sound \u643 ?\u603 ?p\u605 ?d (this would include shepherd, shepherds, shepherding...)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ~\u643 ?\u603 ?p\u605 ?dz\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 sounds-alike search using IPA (example)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tilde marks the search term as phonetic (and if similarity is set between 33 and 99, search handles approximate matching)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 This would match the lexical entry "shepherds" (and possibly similar terms, depending on similarity threshold)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (is)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lemma\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 search on all words that share the same lemma as is: be, is, are, art, ...\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 be is are art ...\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /noun/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a noun\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x010\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /n/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /noun/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x010\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /verb/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a verb\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x100\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /v/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /verb/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x100\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /pronoun/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a pronoun\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x020\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /pn/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /pronoun/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x020\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /adjective/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is an adjective\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xF00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /adj/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /adjective/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xF00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /adverb/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is an adverb\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xA00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /adv/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /adverb/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xA00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /determiner/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a determiner\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xD00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /det/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 synonym for /determiner/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xD00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /preposition/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a preposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x400\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /prep/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where part of speech is a preposition\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x400\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0FF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /1p/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is inflected for 1st person (pronouns and verbs)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x100\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /2p/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is inflected for 2nd person (pronouns and verbs)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x200\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /3p/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is inflected for 3rd person (pronouns, verbs, and nouns)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x300\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x3000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /singular/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is known to be singular (pronouns, verbs, and nouns)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x400\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xC000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /plural/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is known to be plural (pronouns, verbs, and nouns)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0x800\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xC000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /WH/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexical marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is a WH word (e.g., Who, What, When, Where, How)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS12::0xC00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xC000\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /BoB/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the first word of the book (e.g. first word in Genesis)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0xE0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /BoC/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the first word of the chapter\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x60\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /BoV/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the first word of the verse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x20\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /EoB/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the last word of the book (e.g. last word in revelation)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0xF0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /EoC/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the last word of the chapter\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x70\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /EoV/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 transition marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word where it is the last word of the verse\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x30\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xF0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Hsm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hard Segment Marker (end) ... one of . \\? !\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x40\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Csm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Core Segment Marker (end) ... :\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x20\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Rsm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Real Segment Marker (end) ... one of . \\? ! :\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x60\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Ssm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Soft Segment Marker (end) ... one of \\, \\; ( ) --\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::0x10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /sm/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 segment marker\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Any Segment Marker (end) ... any of the above\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 TRAN::!=0x00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x07\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /_/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately marked for clausal punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::!=0x00\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /!/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by an exclamation mark\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x80\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /?/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a question mark\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0xC0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /./\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a period (declarative)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0xE0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /-/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a hyphen/dash\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0xA0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /;/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a semicolon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x20\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /,/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a comma\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x40\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /:/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a colon (information follows)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x60\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0xE0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /'/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 punctuation\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is possessive, marked with an apostrophe\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /)/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 parenthetical text\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word that is immediately followed by a close parenthesis\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x0C\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x0C\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /(/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 parenthetical text\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 any word contained within parenthesis\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x04\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x04\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Italics/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 text decoration\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 italicized words marked with this bit in punctuation byte\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x02\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x02\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /Jesus/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 text decoration\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 words of Jesus marked with this bit in punctuation byte\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PUNC::0x01\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x01\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 /delta/\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 lexicon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 [archaic] word can be transformed into modern American English\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \{type\}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 named entity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Entities are recognized by MorphAdorner. They are also matched against Hitchcock's database. This functionality is experimental and considered BETA.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 type=person man\line woman tribe city\line river mountain\line animal gemstone\line measurement any\line any_Hitchcock\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 [FFFF]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 PN+POS(12)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 hexadecimal representation of bits for a PN+POS(12) value.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 See Digital-AV SDK\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 uint16\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 [FFFFFFFF]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 POS(32)\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 hexadecimal representation of bits for a POS(32) value.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 See Digital-AV SDK\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 uint32\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 [string]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 nupos-string\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 NUPOS string representing part-of-speech. This is the preferred syntax over POS(32), even though they are equivalent. NUPOS part-of-speech values have higher fidelity than the 16-bit PN+POS(12) representations.\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 See Part-of-Speech-for-Digital-AV.docx\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 uint32\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 99999:H\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strongs Number\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 decimal Strongs number for the Hebrew word in the Old Testament\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One of Strongs[4]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x7FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 99999:G\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strongs Number\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 decimal Strongs number for the Greek word in the New Testament\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 One of Strongs[4]\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0x7FFF\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 S4T grammar conforms to the Quelle specification\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 specifies two possible implementation levels:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Level 1 [basic search support]\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Level 2 [search support includes also searching on part-of-speech tags]\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 S4T is a Level 2 Quelle implementation with augmented search capabilities. S4T grammar extends the Quelle specification, to include AVX-Framework-specific constructs. These extensions provide additional specialized search features and the ability to manage two distinct lexicons for the biblical texts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab S4T grammar represents the biblical text with two substantially similar, but distinct, lexicons. The search.lexicon setting can be specified by the user to control which lexicon is to be searched. Likewise, the render.lexicon setting is used to control which lexicon is used for displaying the biblical text. As an example, the KJV text of "thou art" would be modernized to "you are".\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV/KJV {\i (a lexicon that faithfully represents the KJV bible; AV purists should select this setting)}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AVX/Modern {\i (a lexicon that that has been modernized to appear more like contemporary English)}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Dual/Both {\i (use both lexicons)}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Dual/Both setting for lexicon.search indicates that searching should consider both lexicons. The The Dual/Both setting for lexicon.render indicates that results should be displayed for both renderings [whether this is side-by-side or in-parallel depends on the format and the application where the display-rendering occurs]. Left unspecified, the lexicon setting applies to lexicon.search and lexicon.render components.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab S4T grammar provides support for fuzzy-match-logic. The similarity setting can be specified by the user to control the similarity threshold for approximate matching. An exact lexical match is expected when similarity is set to {\i exact} or 0. Zero is not really a similarity threshold, but rather 0 is a synonym for {\i exact}.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Approximate matches are considered when similarity is set between 33% and 99%. Similarity is calculated based upon the phonetic representation for the word.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The minimum permitted similarity threshold is 33%. Any similarity threshold between 1% and 32% produces a syntax error.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A similarity setting of {\i precise} or 100% is a special case that still uses phonetics, but expects a full phonetic match (e.g. "there" and "their" are a 100% phonetic match).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 AV-Bible uses the AV-1769 edition of the sacred text. It substantially agrees with the "Bearing Precious Seed" bibles, as published by local church ministries. The text itself has undergone review by Christian missionaries, pastors, and lay people since the mid-1990's. The original incarnation of the digitized AV-1769 text was implemented in the free PC/Windows app known as:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 1995 Edition for Windows 95 & Windows NT 3.5\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 1997 Edition for Windows 95 & Windows NT 4.0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 1999 Edition for Windows 98 & Windows NT 4.0\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2000 Edition for Windows Me & Windows 2000\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2007 Edition for Windows XP\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2011 Edition for Windows Vista\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2021 Edition for Windows 10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab AV-Bible - 2024 Edition for Windows 11 (current release; initial release to support S4T grammar)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Decades ago, AV-Bible (aka AV-1995, AV-1997, ... AV-2011), were found on internet bulletin boards and the now defunct bible.advocate.com website. More recent legacy versions are still available at the avbible.net website. Modern editions are distributed on the Microsoft store.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Please see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://Digital-AV.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://Digital-AV.org
}}}
 for additional information about the SDK.\par}
}
